## Project 2 Blog Post

As part of my ongoing journey to learn more about programming and becoming a data scientist, I recently completed a project to create a vignette demmonstrating how to read and summarize data from an API.

In my vignette, I wrote functions to interact with the Nobel Prize API's endpoints, retrieved some data, and explored it using tables, numerical summaries, and data visualization through a variety of different plots. Some of my findings were not too surprising, such as there being a significantly greater number of male versus female laureates, and the United States having both the greatest total number of past Nobel Prize winners and greatest number of female laureates. I also discovered some interesting new information, such as how female Nobel Prize winners have generally won a lot more in certain categories but are still far behind in the scientific categories.

To begin the process of creating my vignette, I had to search through several APIs online to find one that would not only be suitable for my project but also contain interesting information about which I could ask questions and make relevant observations. To be honest, I found this part of the process to be one of the most difficult. Several of the APIs required API keys and I ultimately could not find a way to access these APIs and pull data from them. Other free APIs either did not contain enough data in general, numerical data, or easily retrievable data. In the end though, I was happy to discover the Nobel Prize API, which allowed me to investigate some interesting questions and was free to use, well-organized, and well-maintained.

After finally settling on an API, I then had to apply the skills I have been slowly developing over the past few months to parse data, create functions, find and install new packaages, and visually plot data in new and interesting ways. Programmingwise, I did learn a lot about how many approaches and packages there are available for programmers to choose from, and how that can allow one to shape their code and formatting to reflect personal preferences as well as user-friendliness. However, in approaching a similar project in the future I think I would try to find a source with a greater wealth of numeric data as this is easier to apply when it comes to doing numerical summaries and data plots.

If you would like to see my finished vignette, you can find links to both the github page and regular repo at the following links!:
• [Github page for vignette](https://twcraft.github.io/Project-2/)
• [Regular repo for vignette](https://github.com/twcraft/Project-2)

I hope my reflections in this post as well as my vignette are helpful to readers as much as this has been a great learning experience for me.
